One limitation of the bag of words approach is
that it treats every word as being equally important.
Whereas intuitively, we know that some words occur frequently within a corpus.
For example, when looking at financial documents,
cost or price maybe a pretty common term.
We can compensate for this by counting the number of documents in which each word occurs.
This can be called document frequency,
and then dividing the term frequencies by the document frequency of that term.
This gives us a metric that is proportional to
the frequency of occurrence of a term in a document,
but inversely proportional to the number of documents it appears in.
It highlights the words that are more unique to a document,
and thus better for characterizing it.
You may have heard of or used the TF-IDF transform before.
It's simply the product of two weights.
Very similar to what we've seen so far,
a term frequency, and an inverse document frequency.
The most commonly used form of TF-IDF defines
term frequency as the raw count of a term T in a document D,
divided by the total number of terms in
D. Inverse document frequency as the logarithm of,
the total number of documents in the collection D,
divided by the number of documents where T is present.
Several variations exist, that try to normalize or smooth
the resulting values or prevent edge cases such as divide by zero errors.
Overall TF-IDF is an innovative approach to assigning weights to words,
that signify their relevance in documents.
So, what can we accomplished with a bag of words or TF-IDF representation?
Let's try to apply what we've learned to a classification task,
distinguishing spam messages, from normal messages.
Here we'll use the TF-IDF vectors as features,
along with the label spam,
not spam to set up a supervised learning problem.